So, like documents that
we've been talking about.
Some documents,
don't need a lot of editing and
can be sent relatively rough
draft first try, right?
And some documents are so
important that need multiple editors and
multiple weeks of revisions and
multiple people to sign off.
This is the same exact principles
applied to meeting prep.
There are some meetings that you
can just walk into where the last
step before you enter the conference
room or click your Zoom button.
You can just think of,
what do I want from this?
What are we gonna talk about?
Cool, right, and that 15 seconds of
thinking you can just kind of set your
intention and you can kind of give
yourself a rough agenda in your brain.
And then you go into the meeting and
that's great.
One on ones recurring meetings where
you're just kind of updating status and
stuff like that or
kind of meetings like that.
There are other meetings, like the one
I was telling you about before,
where you should be thinking about it the
month before you get into that meeting.
And you should have multiple
people look at your slide deck.
You should have multiple people look
at your agenda and your timeboxing.
You should have talked to every person
that's gonna be in that meeting so
that nothing surprises you.
So that's the spectrum here, right,
most meetings are gonna fall
somewhat in the middle.
So, first thing is set your intention.
This is your meeting.
What do you want out of it?
Sometimes that can just
be context sharing.
I'm gonna say if your intention
is just context sharing,
maybe go one step further.
Just think of, okay, I am gonna share this
context with someone because I want them
to do this and wanting them to continue
to do whatever they're doing is valid.
But just make sure that that is your
intention when you enter that room.
But typically it's gonna be something
like, I'm sharing all these metrics about
your service because I want
you to improve your service or
change what your service does, right?
And just going in with that, intention
will allow you to hone your message, what
slides you show them, what metrics you
show them, who you invite to the meeting.
All those things are gonna come
first by setting your intention and
also thinking about who
is in the invite list.
We have a habit of just
inviting everyone to a meeting.
One, you frequently
are wasting their time, right?
And frequently they
don't have to be there.
And having people that don't need to be
there can often derail meetings, right?
So being intentional about your
invite list can also be helpful.
Okay, so set your intention.
The agenda, I know a lot of us self
included, don't like to think through
things to thorough, well, I don't
know how long things are gonna take.
It's like software estimating but
for time in meetings, right?
It's really hard to estimate
how long is the topic gonna go?
Cuz you don't know if you're
gonna go on tangents.
You don't know how long people
are gonna ask questions for.
Or, you don't know how long
things are gonna go for.
And so sometimes it's easier to think,
well, I'm just not gonna plan for
this because this seems silly and
hard, right?
I'm still gonna say every
meeting that you go to,
even if it's just in your head, you
should have some sort of agenda, right?
We're gonna talk about this,
we're gonna talk about this and
when we're done with that,
we're gonna either close the meeting or,
go off into whatever
tangents that we find.
But having some agenda in there
just helps keep people on topic.
If you don't have a written agenda,
written agenda is always preferable, but
if you don't, I always verbalize
at the beginning of my meetings.
I have planned to talk about X,
Y, and Z today.
Let's make sure we get through all of it,
right?
And what's really,
really useful about that one phrase
at the beginning of the meeting?
Is that if you get a third of
the way through the meeting,
and you have three topics to discuss,
you have a very pre-shared bought off on,
okay, we're at time for this.
We gotta move on if we're gonna cover
everything, because otherwise you're
only ever gonna cover the first
thing on your agenda, right?
So having that is a bit
of a superpower for
allowing you to move
the conversation along.
Helps keep everyone on task and
helps keep yourself on task.
So yeah, just make sure you
have an agenda, somewhat.
A really good place,
at least just a personal tip from me.
If I don't have a written agenda in
some sort of doc that I'm sending out,
I'll just put it in the invite, right?
Hey, this is this meeting.
We're gonna talk about this this week,
blah, right?
And that, anything that you can pre-share
with people that are coming to a meeting
is helpful because if someone else is
coming in with like an agenda topic.
It helps you get that information before
you start the meeting, which is helpful.
Okay, timeboxing.
So, once you're on the upper side of this
spectrum of how important this meeting is.
Timeboxing goes from someone optional
to becoming extremely important.
If you're going into
an important meeting and
you have not thought about time boxes for
your agenda,
you are not doing yourself and
everyone in that room is service, right?
So you're gonna come in is I have X,
Y and Z.
We're talking about this for 10 minutes,
we're talking about this for
40 minutes and we're talking
about this for 10 minutes, right?
Just do it.
It's okay that you don't hit the time box.
It's okay for you to throw
the time boxes out the window.
If you're on some tangent and it's,
actually this is really more important
than topic Z at the end, let's cut it.
We'll make a new meeting,
let's pull on the thread here.
That's totally fine.
This is an instrument that if it actually
is important that you talk about Z, and
Y is going too long.
It's, hey everyone,
we're at time for this topic.
We gotta keep going.
The other thing is I'll say is frontload
your meetings with what you wanna
talk about.
Don't worry about some narrative
structure, worry about what's important.
So I'll put my topic at the beginning
even if it's five minutes and
timebox there but
make sure your points get across first.
And then other people's points go,
as you can tell I'm very selfish
when it comes to my agenda, right?
Which is fine, because I'm
the most important person here.
So, I mean, whatever I just care
about getting my stuff done and
then I'll also be helpful to other people,
I guess.
Don't be afraid to interrupt people,
if they are going over and
dominating the topics.
I've interrupted CEOs before, I've
interrupted people from other companies
before, hey, we're at time here, wrap up
your thought, we gotta move on, right?
And I've got in trouble for
it and I don't care, right,
cuz that's just someone
running an agenda well.
99 actually, I'm gonna say 999
times out of 1000, everyone's been,
okay, yeah, cool let's move on, right?
Because they're all in the same boat.
Everyone hates meetings the same way,
right?
And I've seen junior PMs interrupt.
I've seen a junior PM interrupt Satya
Nadella in the middle of a meeting and
Satya respect the hell out of it,
so, right?
If that junior PM can get up there and
do that, so can you.
All right, pet peeve here,
I hate decision by committee meetings.
They're one of my least favorite
things where someone comes in is,
here's a bunch of context.
All right, everyone, let's argue
about what the best solution is,
because usually it's one person.
Usually the person actually does have a
secret decision that they've already made,
and they're gonna try and guide you to it.
That's annoying.
And then usually there's another person in
the room that has their own opinion about
it and
they just dominate the conversation.
And usually you go end up
with one of those two things.
So here is my invitation to, is come in
with a decision made, is here's context.
I wanna do this fight me, right?
That is a way better meeting because
then everyone talks about, okay,
here's why we think your stuff is good or
or you'll end up with,
actually we think this other
solution is really good.
And you'll get a bunch of good reasons
of why yours is insufficient and
or why the other one is a better solution.
But come in with the decisions made and
then discuss it from there.
Because otherwise you end up with
these weird solutions sometimes that
you agreed upon just because someone's
gonna dominate the conversation.
And you just lose control the meeting,
right?
So, come in with a decision made
that's my invitation to you.
I've seen a lot of success from that.
I don't remember where actually I heard
I think it came from some company.
I wanna say it was from the Shopify
blog or something like that.
It's, hey, we do all of our meetings
this way, my gosh, it's so much better.
So I wholesale adopted that.
>> What if the decision
that you made was wrong.
How do you eventually
kind of resolve that?
>> I mean, I have a mantra that
I tell myself all the time.
It's, I am an idiot and
I'm learning things all the time, right?
So if you come in with
better things about it,
I have no attachment to
any of my solutions.
So if you come in and you present a bunch
of stuff to me and you convince me,
I am very prepared, it's like,
my gosh, that's so much better.
Let's run with that, right?
So I guess it's just having
the humility and the adaptability and
the recognition that every
one is an idiot, right?
That helps you get over
that really quickly.
Am I answering your question?
>> I was like, what if the decision
that you made in this meeting,
everybody agrees that
your option's the best.
A month, two months down the line,
it becomes apparent that maybe
this wasn't the best decision.
>> Yeah, that's just sorry, go ahead
>> No, I was gonna say,
do reach back out to the group and
say, perhaps I jumped the gun and
was wrong or do you just forget about it?
What would you do?
>> Yeah, just bury everything and
do the wrong thing.
That's what I would say.
>> [LAUGH]
>> No, I'm just kidding.
No, having a culture of
experimentation is critical, right?
Because it means that you're
gonna try a lot of things and
a lot of stuff is not gonna work.
And having that fail fast
mentality is awesome.
And that culture of learning,
the growth mindset, right?
Of we're not attached to egos here.
We're attached to finding the best thing.
So in those kind of situations,
I have no problem.
Generally, I just don't
point fingers at all,
I don't really care who
came up with the solution.
We all went with it, so it's all of our
fault, right, whether it came from me or
from someone else, you agreed to it.
Who's the bigger idiot the leader or
the follower I would say they're both
idiots it doesn't matter, right?
So I would just send an email is, hey we
went with this we found this is better
let's have a chat if that's necessary or
we're just gonna go with the thing
that we actually found is much better.
Does that answer your question?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> I just was wondering personal
philosophy.
>> Yeah, no, just doesn't matter to me,
I just like doing the best thing, right?
I like looking for the best thing.
>> I think some organizations are more
open to failures than others.
We're depending on the importance or
I don't know-
>> Yeah.
I think my personal philosophy just
wouldn't last very long in those
solutions.
If I was, this is my project and
Brian's name is strongly attached to it.
And if I came back to him and I was, hey,
my solution is actually a really
bad idea and we found that out.
And they're, okay, I guess you're fired.
I'd be, cool.
Where's the severance, right?
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's that, I'll see you all later,
right?
I just wouldn't last very long.
I'm not gonna be a good fit
in that kind of culture.
And I'm gonna argue it I think.
First of all, I know a lot of
cultures are like that and secondly,
I just wouldn't last very long in it.
I'm not the best person to talk
about how to play Game of Thrones or
game of rolling chairs as I
like to call it kinda politics.
I'm great at working around people, but
I'm not great at
the corporate intrigue of how
do I get credit for
bad things kind of thing?
And I was gonna, it is a bad thing and
there are people that are really
good at it I don't wanna play it and
I don't have to play it, right,
I can just find somewhere else to work.
To slide deck or to not slide deck,
that's a really cultural thing.
At Microsoft, everything was a slide deck
and at Stripe nothing was a slide deck,
and at Snowflake,
sometimes things are slide decks.
So it's gonna be kind of
based on where you are and
how much there is an expectation of it.
At Stripe I still had slide
decks from time to time and
I would keep them, it does help to keep
discussions focused around a thing, right?
Because there's something they
can literally just point at it's,
all right, people, it's on the screen,
pay attention to it.
If you have visuals, that's great.
And it is an artifact afterwards that
you get to share with people, right?
It's like the doc that you can send around
after the meeting, before the meeting,
that people can kind of read through
it and get prepared for the meeting.
I mean, Iwas talking about that monthly
meeting that I had at Microsoft.
My favorite thing about it is I would
usually send that slide deck out like
three or four days beforehand
to that vice president,
the vice president that was gonna read it.
And most of those meetings actually, I
would come in and it's, all right, Scott,
you read the deck,
what do you wanna talk about, right?
And I wouldn't actually even
go through the slide deck.
He's, all right,
can we skip to this topic and
we would just jump straight to the one.
And the kind of implicit agreement is,
if we didn't talk about it,
he signed off on it, right?
So, I really appreciated him for
doing that, and
it's something that you can
build an expectation of.
And a really easy way to do that, you can
build a culture that at least around your
meetings is you'd walk in the deck and
it's, all right,
who read the slide deck, right?
And kind of put a little
accountability on it, and
if they know that they're gonna
get asked that every week.
And some people are gonna say yes and
some people are gonna say no,
eventually everyone's gonna start reading
or they're gonna stop showing up.
Both those are okay by me, right?
But then you can come in as,
all right, what questions do you have?
What do you wanna talk about, particularly
when you have a long slide deck and
a short meeting,
it becomes really essential.
But sending things out beforehand actually
becomes a big lever of kind of controlling
your conversations.
Cool, just some very basic
things about slide decks,
I've done a lot of public
speaking as I'm presently doing.
But I've spoken at probably a hundred
conferences at this point and
30 or so countries around the world.
It was literally my job for Microsoft for
a while to speak at conferences.
So I have a lot of experience
of making a lot of slide decks,
keep the novellas off the slides.
No one wants to read whole
entire paragraphs around it.
If you really want to put something
right that put it in the notes and
let people read it afterwards.
But you wanna keep the focus off
the sides and usually on you.
So use visuals that tell stories or
help keep people on target.
And then just sentences and short phrases,
that kind of spur discussions.
That's really it.
I like to throw some humor in there
that's just kind of my speaking style.
Some would call it unprofessional but
who cares, right?
It's gonna be up to you it can be up
to the culture who you're presenting
to, right?
I was presenting at The bank of Iceland or
one of the banks in Iceland.
It was a long Icelandic name that I
definitely would not be able to pronounce
or reproduce.
It was a large bank in Iceland.
And I went in there with a bunch of jokes
in my slides and someone came in after me.
Was, no one ever talks like that here.
I was, do I need to change my slides?
No, we'd love it.
[LAUGH] So keep it contextual.
I'm usually not the best at that.
When there's 20 plus people in
the meeting, that's where I'll be,
I probably need a slide deck to
keep this kind of thing reined in.
It's also nice too,
you can put your time boxing.
Hey, we have 15 minutes on this
item then we gotta move on.
It's just a good visual cue for that, but
in general I want my focus on people and
not on slides, so
that's kind of my thoughts on that.
But lean into whatever your style is.
Some people are awesome at slide decks and
need a slide deck to
keep everything going.
If that's you, do it,
I have no problem with it.
Some people just wanna get up there and
stand up comedy for a half hour,
I can use a beer too if
you're gonna do that though.